Drafting SL ref docs (#8709)
fishtown-analytics/docs.getdbt.com: website/docs/reference/metric-properties.md

---
title: "Metric properties"
id: metric-properties
sidebar_label: "Metric properties"
description: "Property reference for Semantic Layer metrics: simple, cumulative, ratio, derived, and conversion."
keywords:
  - dbt semantic layer
  - metrics
  - metric configuration
  - MetricFlow
---

> Metrics define measurable quantities that you can query through the Semantic Layer. You can define them in standalone YAML (see [Creating metrics](/docs/build/metrics-overview)) or, in <Constant name="fusion" />, as a `metrics` list under a [semantic model](/reference/semantic-model-properties) on a [model](/reference/model-properties).

Reviewer: This is not only available in Fusion, and `semantic_models` live under `models` in the new spec

```suggestion
Metrics define measurable quantities that you can query through the Semantic Layer. You can define them in standalone YAML (see [Creating metrics](/docs/build/metrics-overview)) or, in the latest YAML spec, as a `metrics` list under a [model](/reference/model-properties).
```

Author: changed in this [commit](https://github.com/dbt-labs/docs.getdbt.com/pull/8709/commits/b2b1062f74ba5cbbcb8fa7a3ec26cc75fda8b070)

## Available metric properties (common)

> | Property | Type | Required | Description |

Reviewer: The properties listed here are part of the legacy spec. I suggest we create a new table with the properties for the new spec and version block both tables.

Author: versioned in this [commit](https://github.com/dbt-labs/docs.getdbt.com/pull/8709/commits/b2b1062f74ba5cbbcb8fa7a3ec26cc75fda8b070)

|----------|------|----------|-------------|
| name | string | Yes | Unique metric name. Use lowercase letters, numbers, and underscores. |
| description | string | No | Documentation for the metric. |
| type | string | Yes | One of: `simple`, `cumulative`, `ratio`, `derived`, `conversion`. |
| type_params | object | Yes (<Constant name="core" />) | Type-specific parameters. Structure depends on `type`. See the type-specific sections below. |
| label | string | Yes (<Constant name="core" />) / No (<Constant name="fusion" />) | Display name in downstream tools. |
| filter | string | No | MetricFlow filter expression (dimensions, entities, or other metrics). |
| config | object | No | Supports [meta](/reference/resource-configs/meta), [group](/reference/resource-configs/group), [tags](/reference/resource-configs/tags), [enabled](/reference/resource-configs/enabled). |

## Type-specific parameters

The following parameters apply by metric type:

> - **Simple**: `agg` (required), `expr`, `percentile`, `percentile_type`, `non_additive_dimension`, `agg_time_dimension`, `join_to_timespine`, `fill_nulls_with`

Reviewer: The parameters listed here are only for the new spec

Author: versioned in this [commit](https://github.com/dbt-labs/docs.getdbt.com/pull/8709/commits/b2b1062f74ba5cbbcb8fa7a3ec26cc75fda8b070)

- **Cumulative**: `input_metric` (required), `window`, `grain_to_date`, `period_agg`
- **Derived**: `expr` (required), `input_metrics` (required)
- **Ratio**: `numerator` (required), `denominator` (required)
- **Conversion**: `entity` (required), `calculation` (required), `base_metric` (required), `conversion_metric` (required), `window`, `constant_properties`

> For full `type_params` and examples per type, see [Creating metrics](/docs/build/metrics-overview), [Simple metrics](/docs/build/simple), [Cumulative metrics](/docs/build/cumulative), [Ratio metrics](/docs/build/ratio), [Derived metrics](/docs/build/derived), and [Conversion metrics](/docs/build/conversion).

Reviewer: I suggest we add links to each page to the list above

## Defining metrics on a model

> In <Constant name="fusion" />, you can define metrics inside a semantic model that is attached to a model. In your model YAML, under `semantic_model`, add a `metrics` list. Each item uses the same properties as in the table above. This keeps metrics co-located with the semantic model they belong to.

Reviewer: The new spec is not only available in Fusion and `metrics` is at the same level as `semantic_models`
```suggestion
In the latest YAML spec, you can define metrics on a model that has semantic modeling enabled. Each item uses the same properties as in the table above. This keeps metrics co-located with the semantic model they belong to.
```

---

Metrics define measurable quantities that you can query through the <Constant name="semantic_layer" />. You define them in different places, depending on your <Constant name="dbt" /> version:

- In a model using the *latest* YAML spec. Top-level `metrics:` list on a [model](/reference/model-properties) that has semantic modeling enabled, alongside `semantic_model:` and `columns:`. Available in the <Constant name="dbt_platform" /> **Latest** release track and the <Constant name="fusion_engine" />.
- In the standalone *legacy* YAML spec.  Refer to [Creating metrics](/docs/build/metrics-overview) for more information.

import LatestYamlSpecAvailability from '/snippets/_latest-yaml-spec-availability-versioned.md';

<LatestYamlSpecAvailability />

<VersionBlock firstVersion="1.12">

## Latest spec (model YAML)

In the latest YAML spec, you can define metrics on a model that has semantic modeling enabled. Add a top-level *metrics* list alongside *semantic_model* and *columns* (metrics are not nested under semantic_model). Type-specific settings are top-level keys on each metric.

### Available metric properties (latest spec)

| Property | Type | Required | Description |

> |----------|------|----------|-------------|

Reviewer 2: hidden is actually a property for any metric, not just simple metrics.

Author: addressed in [this commit](https://github.com/dbt-labs/docs.getdbt.com/pull/8709/commits/a49cc0463edf7b3bcbdcc91d5003d04e2e6b70aa)

| name | string | Yes | Unique metric name. Use lowercase letters, numbers, and underscores. |
| type | string | Yes | One of: `simple`, `cumulative`, `ratio`, `derived`, `conversion`. |
| description | string | No | Documentation for the metric. |
| label | string | No | Display name in downstream tools. |
| filter | string | No | MetricFlow filter expression (dimensions, entities, or other metrics). |
| config | object | No | Supports [meta](/reference/resource-configs/meta), [group](/reference/resource-configs/group), [tags](/reference/resource-configs/tags), [enabled](/reference/resource-configs/enabled). |

### Properties by metric type (latest spec)

| Metric type | Key properties |
|-------------|-----------------|
| All | name, type, description, label |

> | Simple | agg, expr, time_granularity, agg_time_dimension, hidden, join_to_timespine, fill_nulls_with; optionally config, non_additive_dimension |

Reviewer: For lines 44-48, I suggest we add links to corresponding pages

Author: resolved [here](https://github.com/dbt-labs/docs.getdbt.com/pull/8709/commits/a8e2fb63ac3105f907dd73f5f7ed2d1a2968a550)

| [Derived](/docs/build/derived-metrics) | expr, input_metrics (each with optional alias, filter, offset_window) |
| [Ratio](/docs/build/ratio-metrics) | numerator, denominator (each a metric name or a dict with name, filter, alias) |
| [Conversion](/docs/build/conversion-metrics) | entity, calculation, base_metric, conversion_metric, window; optional constant_properties |

> | [Cumulative](/docs/build/cumulative-metrics) | input_metric, window, grain_to_date, period_agg |

Reviewer 2: You might already be aware of this and just planning to continue stacking PRs before releasing, but these 4 links seem to go nowhere.

> **Cross-model metrics:** Metrics under a model's *metrics* list can only reference that semantic model. Metrics that depend on other semantic models (for example, cross-model cumulative, ratio, derived, or conversion) go in a top-level *metrics* key in standalone YAML (same in both specs). No simple metrics at that level.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Cross-model metrics:** Metrics under a model's `metrics:` list can only reference that semantic model. Metrics that depend on other semantic models (for example, cross-model cumulative, ratio, derived, or conversion) go in a top-level `metrics:` block (outside `models:`). This can live in the same YAML file or a separate file. 
```
